This is the README file for beta release 1 of the Taylor UUCP package.

This package is covered by the Gnu Public License.  See the file
COPYING for details.

It was written by Ian Lance Taylor.  I can be reached at ian@airs.com,
or, equivalently, uunet!airs!ian, or c/o AIRS P.O. Box 520, Waltham
MA, 02254.  I will be on vacation and generally unreachable from the
last week of September until late October, 1991.

CONFIGURATION

You will have to decide what types of configuration files you want to
use.  This package supports a new sort of configuration file,
described in the file CONFIG.  It also supports V2 configuration files
(L.sys, L-devices, etc.) and BNU configuration files (Systems,
Devices, etc.).  No documentation is provided for V2 or BNU
configuration files.  All types of configuration files can be used at
once, if you are so inclined.  Currently using just V2 configuration
files is not really possible, because there is no way to specify a
dialer (there are no built in dialers, and the program does not know
how to read acucap or modemcap); however, V2 configuration files can
be used with a dialer file as described in CONFIG, or with a BNU
Dialers file.

If you are installing a new system, or you want to use the new form of
configuration files, you must write the configuration files.

You must also decide what sort of spool directory you want to use.  If
you will only be using these programs, I recommend SPOOLDIR_TAYLOR;
otherwise select the spool directory corresponding to your existing
UUCP package.  The details of the spool directory choices are
described in sys3.unx.

COMPILATION

1) Take a look at the top of Makefile to make sure the definitions are
reasonable for your system.  If you don't have gcc, get it.  In the
meantime, change CC and CFLAGS accordingly.  On some systems, you may
want to make entries for LIBS.

2) This package uses the alloca function.  When compiled with gcc, it
will automatically use the builtin function.  If your system has
alloca in some special library, add the library to LIBS (e.g. -lPW).
On SCO 3.2.2 I had to extract alloca.o from /lib/libPW.a and set LIBS
to alloca.o.  If you have no alloca, you can indicate this in conf.h;
a simplistic substitute will be used.  You may also be able to use the
public domain alloca available with the emacs distribution.

2) Type ``make configure-unix'' to prepare to compile for a Unix
system (there are no other choices now, but someday there may be).

3) Edit conf.h for your local system.  The comments should explain the
various choices.

4) Edit sysdep.h for your local system.  Again, the comments should
explain the various choices.  The intent is that system dependent
definitions are kept in sysdep.h whereas general, system independent
definitions are kept in conf.h.

5) Type ``make'' to compile everything.

6) I've tested compilation on a DECSystem 3100 running Ultrix 4.0, a
VAXStation II/GPX running Ultrix 3.1, and a 386 box running SCO Unix
3.2.2 (I have only tested under real world conditions on the VAX,
although I have run my test programs on all the machines).  On all of
these I have compiled using gcc and cc (on SCO, with rcc as well).  On
other platforms there are likely to be compilation problems.  Please
let me know what problems you have, and any solutions or workarounds
you come up with.  You may have trouble with tstuu.c; it is only used
for testing, and is not nearly as portable as the rest of the code.

TESTING

This is a beta release.  We have been using it at AIRS to talk to
uunet for three weeks with no trouble since the first three days.
However, it will doubtless fail in some situations.  Do not rely on
this code until you have proven to yourself that it will work.

You can use the uuchk program to test your configuration files.  It
will read them and print out a verbose description.  This is
particularly important if you are using V2 or BNU configuration files,
because there may be bugs in how they are read.  This program should
not be made suid, because it will display passwords if it can read
them.

If your system supports BSD style pseudo-terminals, and you compiled
the code to support the new style of configuration files, you should
be able to use the tstuu program to test the uucico daemon.  Just type
tstuu with no arguments while logged in to the compilation directory
(since it runs ./uucp, ./uux and ./uucico) to run a lengthy series of
tests (it takes over ten minutes on a slow VAX).  You will need a fair
amount of space available in /usr/tmp.  You will probably want to put
it in the background.  Do not use ^Z, because the program traps on
SIGCHLD and winds up dying.  It will create a directory /usr/tmp/tstuu
and fill it with configuration files, and create spool directories
/usr/tmp/tstuu/spool1 and /usr/tmp/tstuu/spool2.

The program will finish with an execute file (X.something) and a data
file (D.something) in /usr/tmp/tstuu/spool1 (or, more likely, in
subdirectories, depending on the choice of SPOOLDIR in sysdep.h).  The
log files /usr/tmp/tstuu/Log1 and /usr/tmp/tstuu/Log2 should look
fairly normal; an error at the end of Log2 is expected, as tstuu shuts
down the slave uucico using a signal.  You can test uuxqt by typing
``./uuxqt -I /usr/tmp/tstuu/Config1''.  This should leave a command
file (C.something) and a data file (D.something) in
/usr/tmp/tstuu/spool1 or in subdirectories.  Again, there should be no
errors in the log file /usr/tmp/tstuu/Log1.

The -x switch will put tstuu in debugging mode, and generate far more
output than you will ever want to see.  The uucico daemons will put
debugging output in /usr/tmp/tstuu/Debug1 and /usr/tmp/tstuu/Debug2.
At this point you're pretty much on your own.

On some systems you can also use tstuu to test my uucico against the
system uucico, by using the -u switch.  For this to work, change the
definitions of ZUUCICO_CMD and UUCICO_EXECL at the top of tstuu.c to
something appropriate for your system.  The definitions in tstuu.c are
what I used for Ultrix 4.0, in which /usr/lib/uucp/uucico is
particularly obstinate about being run as a child; I was only able to
run it by creating a login name with no password whose shell was
/usr/lib/uucp/uucico.  Calling login in this way will leave fake
entries in wtmp and utmp; if you compile tstout.c as an suid root
program, tstuu will run it to clear those entries out.  On most
systems, such hackery should not be necessary, although on SCO I had
to su to root (uucp might also have worked) before I could run
/usr/lib/uucp/uucico.

You can test uucp and uux with the -r switch to make sure they create
the right sorts of files (see Appendix A of the Nutshell Handbook
``Managing UUCP and Usenet'' for the sorts of files that should be
created).

If tstuu passes, or you can't run it for some reason or other, move on
to testing with some other system.  Set up the configuration files as
described in CONFIG, or use an existing configuration.  Tell uucico to
dial out to the system by using the -s system switch (e.g.  ``uucico
-s uunet'').  The log file should tell you what happens.  You can use
debugging mode to get a great deal of information about what sort of
data is flowing back and forth; use -x number (e.g. ``uucico -s uunet
-x 9''), giving a number from 1 to 9.  The higher the number, the more
debugging information you will get.  The debugging information is
written to a file, normally /usr/spool/uucp/Debug although the default
can be changed in sysdep.h and the configuration file can override the
name with the ``debugfile'' command.  The debugging file will contain
passwords and some file contents as they are transmitted over the
line, so the debugging file is only readable by uucp.

You can use the -f switch to force uucico to call out even if the last
call failed recently, or use -S when naming a system.  Otherwise the
status file (in the .Status subdirectory of the main spool directory,
normally /usr/spool/uucp) will prevent too many attempts from
occurring in rapid succession.

Again, let me know about any problems you have and how you got around
them.

INSTALLATION

You can install by suing to root and typing make install.  Or you can
look at what make install does and do it by hand.  It's pretty
simplistic.

TCP

If your system has a Berkeley style socket library, you can compile
the code to permit making connections over TCP.  Specifying that a
system should be reached via TCP is easy, but nonobvious.

If you are using the new style configuration files, see CONFIG;
basically when definining the system put in the line ``port type tcp''
and, if necessary, ``port service xxx'' where xxx is the port number
to use (the default is to look up "uucp" in /etc/services and if not
found to use port 540).  You can specify the address of the remote
host with ``address a.b.c''.  If you don't specify an address, the
system name will be used.

If you are using V2 configuration files, add a line like this to
L.sys:

	foo Any TCP uucp foo.domain chat-script

This will make an entry for system foo, to be called at any time, over
TCP, using port number "uucp" (as found in /etc/services; this may be
specified as a number), using remote host "foo.domain", with some chat
script.

If you are using BNU configuration files, add a line like this to
Systems:

	foo Any TCP - foo.domain chat-script

and a line like this to Devices:

	TCP uucp - -

You only need one line in Devices regardless of how many systems you
contact over TCP.  This will make an entry for system foo, to be
called at any time, over TCP, using port number "uucp" (as found in
/etc/services; this may be specified as a number), using remote host
"foo.domain", with some chat script.

The uucico daemon can also be run as a TCP server.  This code is
probably not completely solid, although it does work.  I don't
recommend investigating it unless you are willing to tinker a bit.
Basically, you must define a port, either using the port file as
described in CONFIG if you are using the new configuration methord or
with an entry in Devices if you are using BNU (there is no way to
define a port using V2).  If you are using BNU the port must be named
"TCP" (a line as shown above will suffice).  You can then start uucico
as "uucico -p TCP" (after the -p, name the port; in BNU it must be
"TCP").  This will wait for incoming connections, and fork off a child
for each one.  Each connection will be prompted with "login: " and
"Password:", and the results will be checked against the call in login
file (see CONFIG for details).  Of course, you can get a similar
effect by using the BSD uucpd program.

COMMENTS

First of all, let me know about any comments you have.

Obviously, there are several more programs that need to be written
eventually, such as uulog, uustat, and, perhaps, uusched.

The -j options to uucp and uux do not do anything (and they are
meaningless without uustat).

The -z option to uux means to send mail to the user if the command
fails.  I have heard that under HDB -z means to send mail if the
command succeeds.  If this is true, there should probably be a compile
time switch to select which behaviour to follow.

The -b and -s options to uux are not implemented by uuxqt.  

More protocols need to be written.
